docs: add snap-preseed plugin (#333)
canonical/imagecraft: docs/reference/plugins/snap_preseed_plugin.rst

.. _reference-snap-preseed-plugin:

Snap Preseed Plugin
===================

> The snap-preseed plugin seeds snaps into a Classic Ubuntu image by running ``snap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snap-preseed plugin seeds snaps into a Classic image by running ``snap
```

Gonna defer to @jahn-junior here, but I'd prefer if possible to not limit this to Ubuntu. We have known reasons for Imagecraft to need to support at least one non-Ubuntu distro, and this would apply to any non-core distro with snapd installed.

Author: Went ahead and removed it. Let me know what you think @jahn-junior!

Reviewer 2: I would've suggested the same thing. Thanks to both of you!

prepare-image --classic``, making them available on first boot.

Keys
----

This plugin provides the following unique keys.

> snap-preseed-snaps

Reviewer: Should these be kitbash directives pointing to the plugin properties model?

Reviewer 2: Eventually, yes. We have an epic for this next cycle, so let's table it for now and tackle it as part of a larger initiative.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type** list of strings

**Required**

The snaps to seed into the image. Each entry can be a snap name or a path to a local

> snap.

Reviewer: IIRC these values can be:

- A store name
- A store name + channel (e.g. `lxd/latest/edge`)
- A local path *within the project directory*

(Technically the emphasised part of the last isn't strictly true but...)

snap-preseed-channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type** string

> The default channel to use when fetching snaps from the store.

Reviewer: A channel in a snap above overrides this, right?

Author: Yes that's correct

snap-preseed-model-assert
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type** string

> The path to a model assertion file that defines the Ubuntu Classic image.

Reviewer: I'd like to workshop this a bit as well. Technically the assertion file for classic mode only defines limited stuff about the snaps, right?

Author: ~~True, hows: `The path to a model assertion file that defines the snaps to seed in the image.`~~

Actually nevermind. For classic systems, the model assertion doesn't need to include snaps at all. It could just have brand and model info. The only other difference I see is `classic` should be set to `true` and there shouldn't be a kernel snap present.

.. _reference-snap-preseed-plugin:

Snap Preseed Plugin

> ===================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snap Preseed plugin
===================
```

> The snap-preseed plugin seeds snaps into a Classic image by running ``snap prepare-image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Snap Preseed plugin seeds snaps into a Classic image by running ``snap prepare-image
```

--classic``, making them available on first boot.

Keys
----

This plugin provides the following unique keys.

snap-preseed-snaps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type** list of strings

The snaps to seed into the image. Valid entries are:

- a snap name

> - a snap name and channel in the format ``snap-name/channel``

Reviewer 2: Nit
```suggestion
- a snap name and channel in the format ``<snap-name>/<channel>``
```

- a path to a local snap within the project directory

snap-preseed-channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type** string

The default channel to use when fetching snaps from the store. This is overridden by any

> channel specified directly in a snap reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default channel to use when fetching snaps from the store. This is overridden by snaps
listed with a channel in ``snap-preseed-snaps``.
```

Author: Forgot to add the channel precedence in the uc-prepare reference so added it there too.

.. meta::
    :description: Reference for the Snap Preseed plugin, which creates the seed directory
                  for classic images.

.. _reference-snap-preseed-plugin:

Snap Preseed plugin

> ===================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snap-preseed plugin
===================
```
In the docs sync today, we decided to hyphenate two-word plugin names (e.g., "Cargo Use" to "Cargo-use").

We'll also need to change instances of "UC Prepare" to "uc-prepare". We can do that here or, if you'd like to preserve this PR's scope, I can open a separate one.

The Snap Preseed plugin creates the seed directory for a classic image with the ``snap
prepare-image --classic`` command. This downloads snaps and their assertions from the
Snap Store and prepares them to be installed during the initial boot.

Keys
----

This plugin provides the following unique keys.

snap-preseed-snaps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** list of strings

The snaps to seed into the image. Valid entries are:

- a snap name
- a snap name and channel in the format ``<snap-name>/<channel>``
- a path to a local snap within the project directory

> If a model assertion with a grade of ``signed`` or ``secured`` is provided, only snaps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the model assertion has a grade of ``signed`` or ``secured``, only snaps
```
Sorry, I just noticed an error with my suggestion for the [UC Prepare counterpart](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/imagecraft/latest/reference/plugins/uc_prepare_plugin/#uc-prepare-snaps). It goes from plural (model assertion**s**) to singular (**the** model assertion) in the same sentence. Similar to the name formatting, we can propagate this change here or I can open a separate PR to normalize this piece.

Author: Happy to make the uc-prepare changes here too :)

Lmk if they weren't propogated correctly

Reviewer 2: Looks good. Thanks for doing that!

declared in the model assertion can be specified, and they can't be referenced by a local
path. This is commonly used to include optional snaps from the model assertion.

snap-preseed-channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** string

The default store channel to fetch snaps from, overriding any channels in the model
assertion, if one is provided. For model assertion with a grade, the ``grade`` must be

> set to ``dangerous``.

Author: A model assertion for a classic image could have no grade (if it uses the older format without a snaps section), in which case no restrictions apply. This isn't the case for core images that use core20+ since they all must use the newer "extended" format which requires a grade (or defaults to "signed").

Reviewer 2: This detail would've gone over my head. Thanks for highlighting it.

One small suggestion for concision. This is a slightly ambiguous "it", but I think it's clear enough.

> If a model assertion is provided and has a grade, it must be set to ``dangerous``.

This is overridden by snaps listed with a channel in ``snap-preseed-snaps``.

snap-preseed-model-assert
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** string

The path to the model assertion file that defines the target device. If this key is set,

> the model assertion should have ``classic`` set to ``true``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The path to the model assertion file that defines the target device. If this key is set,
the model assertion's ``classic`` key must be set to ``true``.
```
This is subjective. I don't love the added inflection, but it feels slightly more natural to me.
